Feature docs/back office search (#2428)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Extending/Backoffice-Search/index.md

---
keywords: Backoffice Search
versionFrom: 8.6.0
meta.Title: "Backoffice Search"
meta.Description: "A guide to customization of Backoffice Search"
---

# Backoffice Search

Backoffice search is usefull tool, which support you in finding your content. Umbraco by default will allow you to search using only few fields: 

| Node Type    | Propagated Fields    |
| ------------ | -------------------- |

> | All Nodes    | UmbracoFileFieldName |

Author: Yeah it would, I think when I was editing table I screw up that, will fix that soon

| Media Nodes  | File path            |
| Member Nodes | email, loginName     |
|              |                      |

> Umbraco 8.6 introduce new easy way for extend/override that fields, which is called IUmbracoTreeSearcherFields. This service exposed hardcoded internal list of fields and allow for modification on them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

However, a specific Umbraco implementation may have additional custom properties that it would be useful to be considered in a Backoffice Search, for example perhaps there is an 'Organisation Name' property on the Member Type, or the 'Main Body Text' property of a Content item. 

Umbraco 8.6 introduced a new easy way to extend/override the default fields by implementing `IUmbracoTreeSearcherFields`. This service exposes the list of default internal search fields for each section and allows modification of them.
```

### Adding custom properties to backoffice search

#### All Node types

```

> public class CustomInternalSearchConstants : InternalSearchConstants,     IInternalSearchConstants

Reviewer: InternalSearchConstants and IInternalSearchConstants, have been renamed to be UmbracoTreeSearcherFields and IUmbracoTreeSearcherFields

Author: true, forgot to update my example code, will upgrade PR soon

{
    public List<string> GetBackOfficeFields()

    {
        var list = base.GetBackOfficeFields();

>         list.Add("parentID");

Reviewer: I think with the examples we should provide more real worldy things, such as in the suggested text above, eg searching Members by an Organisation or Company Name property - searching content by BodyText alias?

Author: @marcemarc here I was using fields which are in all solution and are not related to any on specific starter kits/demo sites

Reviewer: ahh I see, to ensure the example works for everyone - I was thinking it would be cool to show the possibilities though - perhaps with a comment above explaining that the property being added was a custom one, whereas I couldn't think why you would want to search by ParentId?, so would it confuse people as to what the purpose of the example was for... maybe creatorName or writerName, or __NodeTypeAlias would be useful? but difficult, because you want it to be useful text that might contain keywords to be searched... so maybe showing custom properties being used isn't so bad...

Author: @marcemarc when I was implementing that tool my client request possibility of searching by parentID :)

Reviewer: hehe

Reviewer: Think 'we could' have one other different example to parentid? - I don't mind adding it in after we merge... it would be good to show the difference between GetBackOfficeFields and the other specific three Getters, in that if you wanted to add ParentId to all three, you'd only need to add it to the GetBackOfficeFields one...?

Also I think we should add an example of registering the new CustomUmbracoTreeSearcherFields in a composer, so people can see they need to do that step too.

Author: @marcemarc 
 >>if you wanted to add ParentId to all three, you'd only need to add it to the GetBackOfficeFields one...?
Yes you need only add to GetBackOfficeFields
about registering composer, hmm I have mixed feeling, but yeah probably a good idea as someone could be not familiar with Umbraco

Reviewer: Yep, I think I feel the same thing, eg not repeating everything everywhere, but I don't think people will necessarily know to use RegisterUnique

Author: Probably we should get input from doc team @sofietoft, can you help us here or point to a person which should be involved:)?

Reviewer: @bielu we are in the Documentation meeting now, so I am discussing with the rest of the team!

Author: @marcemarc cool :)

        return list;
    }
}
```

#### Documents types

```
public class CustomInternalSearchConstants : InternalSearchConstants,     IInternalSearchConstants
{
    public List<string> GetBackOfficeDocumentFields()
    {
        var list = base.GetBackOfficeDocumentFields();
        list.Add("parentID");
        return list;
    }
}
```

#### Media Types

```
public class CustomInternalSearchConstants : InternalSearchConstants,     IInternalSearchConstants
{
    public List<string> GetBackOfficeMediaFields()
    {
        var list = base.GetBackOfficeMediaFields();
        list.Add("parentID");
        return list;
    }
}
```

#### Member Types

```
public class CustomInternalSearchConstants : InternalSearchConstants,     IInternalSearchConstants
{
    public List<string> GetBackOfficeMembersFields()
    {
        var list = base.GetBackOfficeMembersFields();
        list.Add("parentID");
        return list;
    }
}
```

## More advanced extensions

> To make more customization on back-office search check [ISearchableTree](https://our.umbraco.com/Documentation/Extending/Section-Trees/Searchable-Trees/ "https://our.umbraco.com/Documentation/Extending/Section-Trees/Searchable-Trees/")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further extensibility of the Umbraco Backoffice search implementation check [ISearchableTree](https://our.umbraco.com/Documentation/Extending/Section-Trees/Searchable-Trees/ "https://our.umbraco.com/Documentation/Extending/Section-Trees/Searchable-Trees/")
```
